well as we mentioned earlier The
prominent Palestinian activist ahead
Tamimi was among the 30 prisoners
released on Wednesday the 22-year-old
rose to prominence back in 2017 when she
she slapped an Israeli soldier who
raided her Village in the occupied West
Bank at the time she was sentenced to 8
months in prison Tamimi was arrested
again earlier this month on suspicion of
inciting violence let's speak now to
Dena to kri she is from Al jazer plus
she's written a book with Ahad Tamimi
called they called me a lioness a
Palestinian girls fight for Freedom so
obviously you know her quite well you've
spent uh quite a bit of time with her uh
tell us a little bit about uh how she
came to such
prominence I'm sorry can you repeat the
question tell us a bit about why she be
she came to such
prominence um well I had to grew up in a
prominent Palestinian family that was
known for non-violent activism she grew
up in the West Bank Village of nebis
which is right across the street from an
illegal Israeli settlement that for
years has been illegally confiscating
The Village's land and its natural
resources so in response in about 2009
um her father and members of The Village
decided to wage a nonviolent protest
movement where they would just simply
try to March down to their natural
spring that was um confiscated by the
settlers and in response every single
week they were met by brutal force by
the Israeli military we're talking tear
gas opening fire with rubber coated
steel bullets skunk water and even live
ammunition um from a very young age from
her childhood she witnessed her uncle
killed before her very eyes her cousin
killed before her very eyes her parents
shot her parents repeatedly arrested she
herself getting um injured and then
eventually it culminated into that
iconic moment in7 in 2017 at 16 years
old when she was arrested for the first
time so at that time she spent eight
months in prison I believe uh do we know
much about her experience in
prison um during the first time yes it's
very well documented in the book that we
wrote together in her Memoir um the
conditions in prison were difficult then
and if they were bad then they were
extremely um unbearable now as has been
documented even by Amnesty International
calling it degrading and um torture in
the in the conditions um when she was
imprisoned as a 16-year-old she spent 8
months there as you mentioned she was
able to in defiance of the Israeli uh
you know jailers was able to complete
her secondary uh education complete her
high school behind bars um and really uh
there was able to develop more of a
political Consciousness she took a class
on international law and international
humanitarian law and was more clearly
able to understand the very many
violations that she and the Palestinian
people living under occupation have
lived um through because of Israel and
Dena she was uh Tamimi was arrested
again uh earlier this month can you tell
us a bit more about the circumstances
that she was arrested
under she was arrested on November 6th
in a nighttime raid as it always is a
nighttime raid so just to be clear this
is after the war after the October 7th
uh
events correct uh 10 days prior to her
arrest in fact her father Basim Tamimi
was arrested while he was on his way
trying to make his way to Jordan he has
been he is still um being kept in over
her prison under administrative
detention meaning no charge or trial so
she already had her father taken away
from her and she was part of this giant
wave this bloody crack toown that we
have seen in the occupied West Bank of
Israel arresting thousands of
Palestinians after October 7th it was in
under this context that Ahad was
arrested uh she was beaten during her
arrest as her lawyer La has confirmed um
she was beaten after she was being
transferred uh to prison and she has she
was being kept in Deone prison which is
in Israel which again is a violation of
international law to transfer
Palestinians from the occupied territory
outside of the occupied territory like
um the many harrowing testimonies that
we're hearing from Palestinians who are
being released from the prisons um she
suffered abuse uh she was never charged
they were never able to bring charges
against her so last Sunday the military
Court moved move to try to keep her
under administrative detention which
means she could remain she could have
remained incarcerated without charge or
without
trial okay uh Dena many thanks for your
time Dena takori from AJ plus talking to
us there about the prominent Palestinian
activist ahead Tamimi who was among the
30 prisoners released on Wednesday night